We already saw quite a lot of the very nice features the new cli offers us.
Now one common thing you need in bigger apps is environment variables, environment variables are configuration
variables you could say or global values which you want to inject into your app,
for example URLs which then might differ in the production and in the development environment.
A good example would be API keys or URLs, for your testing environment you might reach out
to some testing API or to an API with a test API key which has a lot of access rights for example attached
to it. For production you don't want to use that same key or that same URL,
instead you want to use a production ready URL and you want to swap that API URL or that API
key.
Now obviously you can manually add it your code right before you build your app for production but it would
be nicer if you could simply store your values and then automatically inject them into your code
and just reference these global values and have them replaced automatically
and the cli supports that,
let me show you how this works.
Not at the example of http request I send
but still of a URL I want to output, let's say.
So in my home.vue file which is basically that page which is loaded here, let's output something
there and there, I will add h1 tag or let's say a paragraph to make it less big, a paragraph where
I say hello just to see that this works,
yes there it is
and now let's say we want to output a URL here, the URL to which we would normally send a http request,
now obviously we can send it there.
So here I have my dev.api.com URL and this is as the name suggests, my development API, let's
say. So for development it's fine that this gets printed but if I now build this for production, I don't
want to use that,
so for that, I don't want to hardcode it in there,
instead I want to store it in some environment variable file which is then handled by the vue cli. For that
I can create a new file here in my project folder which I name .env. Now .env is a file which will
automatically be picked up by the cli where I can store values which I can use in my project, environment
variables are simply key value pairs and there, you can add a VUE_APP_URL name and
then an equal sign and then the value which could be my https://dev.api.com value.
Now with that added, if you save that, you can reference this name in your components or in your code,
not just in the components,
you could of course also use it in your vue instances, so there you could use it in computed properties,
in watchers, anywhere, you can use it in your entire project
essentially, it's injected everywhere,
you can use it in the vuex store,
you can use it everywhere. And actually I will use it in such a way here in home.vue, there
I can direct the output in my template because it's injected into my code but it's not set up as a
vue
instance data property which I could output here,
so instead it will be available in all my javascript code,
so let's add my script tag there.
This creates the vue instance for this component or allows us to configure it
I should say and there, I can add that data field which has to be a function here as you learned when
I return my URL let's say and here, I then reference process.env.VUE_APP_URL,
that's important.
You don't use just the name like this,
instead you add process.env. and this is simply a hardcoded or a provided object
you could say, provided to you by the vue cli which gives you access to your global variables.
And now we can then use that URL property here
in our paragraph with string interpolation like this, before we see that though, I need to restart my
dev server for it to pick up that env file and really take it into account in its configuration. Once this
is done after reloading,
you see that URL here. Now of course, I mentioned that we could use that to swap that value and right
now, we have a global place where we can manage it which already is nice and suffices in some cases
because now at least you can manage your URL here and if you use it in different components, you
only have to change it in one place to change it everywhere so
that's already great but to also get that different value thing going,
you can simply add another file here and that is the .env.
and now you've got different modes.
You've got three modes out of the box,
you got a development mode, you got a test mode and you got a production mode and these modes
are simply global configurations automatically managed and handled and set by the vue cli.
So if you name that file .env.development, then this file will be used during development,
so now if I take my vue app URL here and added into this file and here I use dev and for
the other file, I use just api.com, without dev like this,
then you will see that this .env.development will be used after restarting the server
here with npm run serve.
So after restarting this, we should now see dev here in our page still,
so if we reload this, we still see dev API and not this URL which I set up in the .env file, which
we previously used.
So it now uses this file because of the development because this is one of the default modes the cli
supports
and as I said, alternatives are production
so if you had a .env.production file, then this one would get used for production builds which you
by the way create by running npm run build, this will automatically set mode production and you have
a test mode too, for that you can add a .env.test file. And you don't need to add all these files,
only need them in places where you really want to overwrite some setting,
so I will get rid of test and production here
but if you need that, if you need to get rid of a setting and overwrite it, then these files help you
with that because they will then overwrite any keys you might set in other env files.
And one important note about the key names, I named mine VUE_APP_URL,
now you need to name it
VUE_APP and then your name for it to be available in your client side,
so in your vue code.
So as we are using it here in the home.vue by accessing process env
and then the name,
this only works because it starts with vue app.
If I had name it just my cool name, then it would not be available there,
so for your environment variables to be available in your vue code, they need to start with VUE_APP_
and then your name.
This is really important otherwise,
well you can try it but otherwise it just won't work.